[MUSIC]
>> Douglas Crockford: We have the same set
of statements that you would expect to see
in a C language,
again with some differences.
>> Douglas Crockford: We've got
labeled break, which is good.
So if you've got nested loops and
switches and
stuff, you can break out of
innermost things, which is good.
We've got the for statement which we
can use to iterate through arrays but
I don't recommend using that.
In ES5 we got the forEach method,
the map method where you can
have a function called on
each element of the array.
That eliminates almost all need for
the for loops, so I don't use for
loops anymore.
We have a for in statement which
iterates through all of the names of all
the properties of an object.
Unfortunately it also iterates through
all of the inherited properties
which is usually your methods and so
your methods get mixed up with your
data and it gets to be a mess.
Fortunately we got, in ES5 we got
Object.keys which takes an object and
returns an array of strings
which is just the enumerable
own properties of the object which
are usually the ones you want.
So I don't recommend using for in either.
We already talked about the problems
with the switch statement.
One thing about the switch
statement though.
JavaScript improved the switch
statement in one way and
that is that the switch value
does not need to be a number.
It can be a string which can be very nice
cuz you can switch on a greater set of
values.
And the case values can be expressions,
they don't have to be constants.
So that can be useful in doing
internationalized applications that you
can case against a function which will
return the yes value for this language.
It could be a nice thing,
>> Douglas Crockford: We have exception
handling in this language which is nice.
Before ES3 we didn't,
which meant that you had to write programs
that never went wrong ever because there
is no way to recover from anything,
that was hard, so we got exceptions now.
You can throw literally any value.
There's a convention that you throw
something that comes from a new
constructor, which is the same as creating
an object that has a name property,
and a message property.
But in fact,
you can throw literally anything.
So the way that exceptions are used
is very different than in Java.
And so exception handling is very simple
because we don't have exception types.
There's only one catch block,
and it catches everything.
And generally,
it's going to ignore whatever it caught.
It doesn't care what happened.
All it knows is or
all it cares about is that didn't work, so
let's try something else.
Maybe it'll work instead.
So in Java you tend to see exceptions used
to implement a form of computer go to,
where you can get very
complicated control paths
that are dictated by whoever
threw the exception.
And I think that was
probably a big mistake.
JavaScript didn't make
that particular mistake.
So we tend to use exceptions properly.
Use them only for failures.
We'd never do normal control
paths using exceptions.
>> Speaker 2: Sorry.
>> Douglas Crockford: Yeah.
>> Speaker 2: Could you clarify that?
I didn't understand that statement.
>> Douglas Crockford: So in Java there's
a tendency to look at why did this fail,
right.
>> Speaker 2: Different reasons, different
catch, try exception A, exception B,
exception C.
>> Douglas Crockford: Yeah, exactly.
It got a whole exception cases, and so
you’ve got who threw the exception,
deciding how you're gonna
go through your code and
that usually means that the exceptions
are not actually exceptional.
They're just alternate control paths,
right?
And sometimes it's motivated by weakness
in the type system that you've got
something that wants to return an int but
something else is gonna happen which is
not exceptional, it's just not an int.
[SOUND] I'm out of values and so
you'll throw exception instead.
Whereas in JavaScript because we're
loosely typed you can pass a number or
you can pass undefined or you can pass
a string, or you can pass an object,
you can return anything that you need to.
And so these things are not exceptions.
They're just more modes
of normal processing.
So your control flows
tend to get much simpler.
Any other questions?
Okay, so that's the end of this hour.
So let's take a break and we'll come back.
>> Speaker 3: Hey I have
a quick question from chat.
People were asking why you don't use for
loops and instead favor for each.
>> Douglas Crockford: Yeah.
For each is just much nicer.
Once you get used to it,
it's more readable.
In future versions of the language
it's going to be paralyzable.
It's a more modern construct.
It's more functional.
It's more composable.
It's better in every aspect.
>> Speaker 3: What about the fact that
you can't leave a for each with a return?
>> Douglas Crockford: I'm sorry?
>> Speaker 3: The fact that you can't
leave a for each, like stop a for
each loop.
>> Douglas Crockford: You can, you can
instead of using for each use every,
and then you can have something
return false and then it stops.